docs(best_practices): add otc queueing and batching (#2129)
SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection: deploy/docs/Best_Practices.md

      - name: KUBERNETES_SERVICE_PORT
        value: '12345'
```

## OpenTelemetry queueing and batching

OpenTelemetry goes with several parameters related to queue management.

For [batch processor][batch_processor]:

> - `send_batch_size` defines number of items (logs, metrics, traces) in one batch before it's send to process to exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `send_batch_size` defines the number of items (logs, metrics, traces) in one batch before it's sent further down the pipeline.
```

- `send_batch_max_size` is an upper limit of the batch size.

_We could say that `send_batch_size` is soft limit and `send_batch_max_size` is hard limit of the batch size._

For [sumologic exporter][sumologic_exporter]:

- `max_request_body_size` defines maximum size of requests to sumologic before compression.
- `timeout` defines connection timeout. It is recommended to adjust this value in relation to `max_request_body_size`.

- `sending_queue.num_consumers` is the number of consumers that dequeue batches. It translates to maximum number of parallel connections to the sumologic backend.
- `sending_queue.queue_size` is capacity of the queue in terms of batches (batches can vary between `1` and `send_batch_max_size`)

**As effective value of `sending_queue.queue_size` depends on current traffic,**
**there is no way to figure out optimal PVC size in relation to `sending_queue.queue_size`.**
**Due to that, we recommend to set `sending_queue.queue_size` to high value in order to use maximum resources of PVC.**

[batch_processor]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/v0.36.0/processor/batchprocessor#batch-processor

> [sumologic_exporter]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector/tree/v0.0.35-beta.0/pkg/exporter/sumologicexporter#sumo-logic-exporter

Reviewer: Perhaps update that already with newer versions

Author: I updated all of the links in another commit :shark:

### Compaction

> The OpenTelemetry Collector doesn't have compaction mechanism. It reuses persistent storage space which is no more needed,
> but is unable to free it to filesystem. This leads to situation when database file can grown a lot (due to spike),
> but after some time only small piece of the file will be used for data storage (until next spike).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Collector doesn't have compaction mechanism.
It reuses persistent storage space which but is unable to free it to filesystem.
This leads to situation when database file can grow a lot (due to a spike in data traffic)
but after some time only small piece of the file will be used for data storage (until next spike).
```

      - name: KUBERNETES_SERVICE_PORT
        value: '12345'
```

## OpenTelemetry queueing and batching

> OpenTelemetry goes with several parameters related to queue management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenTelemetry comes with several parameters related to queue management.
```

For [batch processor][batch_processor]:

- `send_batch_size` defines the number of items (logs, metrics, traces) in one batch before it's sent further down the pipeline.

> - `timeout` defines time after which the batch is send regardless of the size (can be lower than `send_batch_size`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `timeout` defines time after which the batch is sent regardless of the size (can be lower than `send_batch_size`).
```

> - `send_batch_max_size` is an upper limit of the batch size.

Reviewer 3: when `send_batch_max_size` is in use? It is not clear for me what is the difference between `send_batch_size` and `send_batch_max_size`

> _We could say that `send_batch_size` is soft limit and `send_batch_max_size` is hard limit of the batch size._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_We could say that `send_batch_size` is a soft limit and `send_batch_max_size` is a hard limit of the batch size._
```

For [sumologic exporter][sumologic_exporter]:

- `max_request_body_size` defines maximum size of requests to sumologic before compression.
- `timeout` defines connection timeout. It is recommended to adjust this value in relation to `max_request_body_size`.

- `sending_queue.num_consumers` is the number of consumers that dequeue batches. It translates to maximum number of parallel connections to the sumologic backend.
- `sending_queue.queue_size` is capacity of the queue in terms of batches (batches can vary between `1` and `send_batch_max_size`)

**As effective value of `sending_queue.queue_size` depends on current traffic,**
**there is no way to figure out optimal PVC size in relation to `sending_queue.queue_size`.**

> **Due to that, we recommend to set `sending_queue.queue_size` to high value in order to use maximum resources of PVC.**

Reviewer 2: We should make clear what is going to happen if the PVC is filled.

Author: added below

[batch_processor]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/v0.44.0/processor/batchprocessor#batch-processor
[sumologic_exporter]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector/tree/v0.0.50-beta.0/pkg/exporter/sumologicexporter#sumo-logic-exporter

### Compaction

> The OpenTelemetry Collector doesn't have compaction mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Collector doesn't have a compaction mechanism.
```

> It reuses persistent storage space which but is unable to free it to filesystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its local storage can only grow - it can reuse disk space that has already been allocated, but not free it.
```

> This leads to situation when database file can grow a lot (due to a spike in data traffic)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This leads to a situation where the database file can grow a lot (due to a spike in data traffic)
```

but after some time only small piece of the file will be used for data storage (until next spike).

### Examples

> Here is some useful examples and calculations for queue and batch parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some useful examples and calculations for queue and batch parameters.
```

For the calculations below we made an assumption that a single metric data point is around 1 kilobyte in size, including metadata.
This assumption is based on the average data we ingest.
Persistent storage doesn't compress data so we assume that single metric data point takes 1 kilobyte on disk as well.

#### Outage with huge metrics spike

Let's consider a huge metrics spike in your network while connection to the Sumologic is down.
Huge load means that batch processor is going to push batches due to `send_batch_max_size` instead of `timeout`.
The reliability of the system can be calculated using the following formulas:

> - If limited by queue_size: `number_of_instances*send_batch_max_size*sending_queue.queue_size/load_in_DPM` minutes.

Reviewer 3: What is `number_of_instances`? Could you add explanation to this doc?

Author: It's number of `otelcol-metric` pods. I will add it to doc
